guide/section_2/changing_the_world.md, before:

# Changing the World

Changing the map is one of the simplest changes we can make. The game works off of a 8x8 room grid,
which themselves are made up of 16x12 tile rooms. These can be edited graphically using Tiled, which
you should have installed in chapter 1.

To start, open `Tiled`, then select `Open` from the file menu, and find `levels/overworld.tmx`. You should see
a screen like this: 

![Tiled](../images/tiled.png)

The panel in the middle is your world. The panel on the top-right is a list of layers, and the bottom-right
has a set of your tiles to put on the map. The properties panel on the left can ignored or closed.

### Important Note

The first thing to be aware of is which layer you have selected on the top right. If you want to edit the map,
be sure to select `Overworld Tiles`. You have to pair this with tiles from the `Overworld Tiles` tileset on the
bottom right panel. If you want to change sprites, you want to use the `Sprites` layer, and the `Sprites` tileset. 

**If you mix these two, the compiler will fail when it tries to build your levels.**

This is admittedly a pain to work with. I have not found a way to make this more intuitive, however suggestions
or pull requests are welcome! We need to keep two separate layers, since sprites should be able to appear on
any type of tile. 

Beyond that, just make the rooms look like you want them to, then save the tmx file and build your game. 
**Bam!** level designs updated!

### Sprite limit

By default, you can put a maximum of 8 sprites on a single map tile. If you add more than this, the last
few will be skipped, and your build command will output warnings. Try to keep this limit in mind while 
adding to your map! 

_If this limit is really constraining, there is a constant you can change to get up to 12, however there
are some side-effects to doing that, and you will have to sort those out._

## The room grid

There is also a layer called `Room Grid` - this layer just has the faint outlines that separates the rooms. This
layer is locked, so you can't accidentally place tiles/sprites on it. (To unlock it, just push the lock icon in 
the `layers` section.) The grid lines appear on the bottom and right of each room. This layer is ignored when 
creating the rom.

Commit message:

Add an extension to make Tiled map editing easier

guide/section_2/changing_the_world.md, after:

# Changing the World

Changing the map is one of the simplest changes we can make. The game works off of a 8x8 room grid,
which themselves are made up of 16x12 tile rooms. These can be edited graphically using Tiled, which
you should have installed in chapter 1.

To start, open `Tiled`, then select `Open` from the file menu, and find `levels/overworld.tmx`. You should see
a screen like this: 

![Tiled](../images/tiled.png)

The panel in the middle is your world. The panel on the top-right is a list of layers, and the bottom-right
has a set of your tiles to put on the map. The properties panel on the left can ignored or closed.

### Important Note

The first thing to be aware of is which layer you have selected on the top right. If you want to edit the map,
be sure to select `Overworld Tiles`. You have to pair this with tiles from the `Overworld Tiles` tileset on the
bottom right panel. If you want to change sprites, you want to use the `Sprites` layer, and the `Sprites` tileset. 

**If you mix these two, the compiler will fail when it tries to build your levels.**

Beyond that, just make the rooms look like you want them to, then save the tmx file and build your game. 
**Bam!** level designs updated!

#### Tiled extension

I have developed a Tiled extension to make editing maps a bit easier. Its main function is to tell you when you 
mix up the tile and sprite layers. It does this by showing a little warning in the lower left: 

![Error Messages](../images/tiled_error_preview.png)

Clicking on it will show you details, and let you double click to have the editor try to auto-fix the problem:

![Error Details](../images/tiled_error.png).

Finally, this adds an option to the `Map` menu (and the shortcut `ctrl+shift+k`) to automatically fix any of
these errors.

##### Tiled Extension Installation

_**Note**: This requires at least version 1.3.1 of Tiled. Earlier versions do not have extension support!_

Convinced? To install it, open Tiled, and follow these steps:

1. Go to the `File` menu, then click `Preferences`. 
2. Click the `Open...` button. This will is your extension folder for Tiled.
![Tiled Extensions](../images/tiled_extensions.png) 
3. In a new explorer window, open the
[tools/tiled_extension](../../tools/tiled_extension) folder
4. copy the `nes-starter-kit-tiled` folder from here into the extensions folder you opened in step 2.

### Sprite limit

By default, you can put a maximum of 8 sprites on a single map tile. If you add more than this, the last
few will be skipped, and your build command will output warnings. Try to keep this limit in mind while 
adding to your map! 

_If this limit is really constraining, there is a constant you can change to get up to 12, however there
are some side-effects to doing that, and you will have to sort those out._

## The room grid

There is also a layer called `Room Grid` - this layer just has the faint outlines that separates the rooms. This
layer is locked, so you can't accidentally place tiles/sprites on it. (To unlock it, just push the lock icon in 
the `layers` section.) The grid lines appear on the bottom and right of each room. This layer is ignored when 
creating the rom.
